README.md, before:

# Flink Demultiplexing Sink Examples

A collection of end-to-end samples that demonstrate how to route Apache Flink 2.x streams to multiple destinations at runtime using a custom **Demultiplexing Sink**. Each example pairs production-style sink implementations with integration tests powered by [Testcontainers](https://testcontainers.com/) so you can see how dynamic routing behaves against real Kafka, JDBC (PostgreSQL), Elasticsearch, and filesystem backends.

The hope is that at some point these could be potentially adopted into Flink Core if there was enough community-driven interest

## Highlights
- Builds on the Flink Sink V2 API with a `DemultiplexingSink` that caches writers per route and restores them from checkpoints for fault tolerance.
- Uses a simple `SinkRouter` contract so you can decide how to derive a route key and create the underlying sink instance for that route.
- Provides runnable examples for FileSink, KafkaSink, JDBC (PostgreSQL), and Elasticsearch, plus a `RoutableMessage` helper for JSON payloads.
- Provides integration tests that spin up the target services via Testcontainers and assert ordering, batching, and dynamic route creation.

## Repository Layout
- `src/main/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples` – core sink implementation (`DemultiplexingSink`, writer/state helpers, `SinkRouter`) and example jobs under connector-specific packages.
- `src/test/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples` – integration tests and utility routers/writers for each connector.
- `pom.xml` – Maven build targeting Java 17 and Flink 2.0.0 with connector/test dependencies.

## Prerequisites
- Java (defaults to 17 matching the compiler target in `pom.xml`)
- Maven
- Docker (required for the Testcontainers-based integration tests)

## Build & Test

Run the full build, including all integration tests:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

> **Note:** Integration tests start Kafka, PostgreSQL, and Elasticsearch containers. Ensure Docker is running. To skip them while iterating, add `-DskipITs`.

## Running the Sample Jobs

The connectors in `src/main` are self-contained jobs that create a `DemultiplexingSink` and feed a few sample records via `StreamExecutionEnvironment#fromData(...)`. Replace the placeholder connection details with values for your environment, then:

1. Build the shaded application JAR (skip tests if you only need the artifact):
   ```bash
   mvn clean package -DskipTests
   ```
2. Submit one of the examples to your Flink cluster, e.g. the Kafka variant:
   ```bash
   flink run \
     -c org.rionmonster.flink.examples.kafka.KafkaDemultiplexingSinkExample \
     target/demux-sink-examples-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
   ```

Each example demonstrates a different routing strategy—by topic for Kafka, by index for Elasticsearch, by table for JDBC, or by directory/file prefix for FileSink.

## Customising the Demultiplexing Sink

Extending the examples typically involves implementing your own `SinkRouter`. Provide deterministic routing keys and create a connector-specific sink when a new route is encountered. For reference, the Kafka example routes messages based on the JSON `topic` field:

```19:46:src/main/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples/kafka/KafkaDemultiplexingSinkExample.java
streamEnv
    .fromData("a:this", "a:is", "b:a", "c:file", "b:routing", "a:example")
    .sinkTo(
        new DemultiplexingSink<>(
            new SinkRouter<String, String>() {
                @Override
                public String getRoute(String element) {
                    return element.split(":")[0];
                }

                @Override
                public Sink<String> createSink(String topicName, String element) {
                    return KafkaSink.<String>builder()
                        .setBootstrapServers("your-bootstrap-servers")
                        .setRecordSerializer(
                            KafkaRecordSerializationSchema.<String>builder()
                                .setTopic(topicName)
                                .setValueSerializationSchema(new SimpleStringSchema())
                                .build())
                        .setDeliveryGuarantee(DeliveryGuarantee.AT_LEAST_ONCE)
                        .build();
                }
            })));
```

Swap in your own route derivation logic, instantiate the appropriate sink, and Flink will manage the lifecycle of each per-route writer—including state snapshots—through `DemultiplexingSink`.

Commit message:

Improved Links and Added Origin/Goals Section to README

README.md, after:

# Flink Demultiplexing Sink Examples

A collection of end-to-end samples that demonstrate how to route Apache Flink 2.x streams to multiple destinations at runtime using a custom **Demultiplexing Sink**. Each example pairs production-style sink implementations with integration tests powered by [Testcontainers](https://testcontainers.com/) so you can see how dynamic routing behaves against real Kafka, JDBC (PostgreSQL), Elasticsearch, and filesystem backends.

## Origin and Goals
Ideally if there was enough community interest in the project, I'd love to work with an existing committer to draft and move forward with a proper FLIP to introduce it to the Flink Core itself. 

This feature stems from work that was originally done to provide this behavior in Elasticsearch (see [FLINK-23977](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-23977) for context) and later generalized within [FLINK-24493](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-24493) to target the V2 Sink API.

## Highlights
- Builds on the Flink Sink V2 API with a `DemultiplexingSink` that caches writers per route and restores them from checkpoints for fault tolerance.
- Uses a simple `SinkRouter` contract so you can decide how to derive a route key and create the underlying sink instance for that route.
- Provides runnable examples for FileSink, KafkaSink, JDBC (PostgreSQL), and Elasticsearch, plus a `RoutableMessage` helper for JSON payloads.
- Provides integration tests that spin up the target services via Testcontainers and assert ordering, batching, and dynamic route creation.

## Repository Layout
- [`src/main/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples`](https://github.com/rionmonster/demux-sink-examples/tree/main/src/main/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples) – core sink implementation (`DemultiplexingSink`, writer/state helpers, `SinkRouter`) and example jobs under connector-specific packages.
- [`src/test/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples`](https://github.com/rionmonster/demux-sink-examples/tree/main/src/test/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples) – integration tests and utility routers/writers for each connector.
- `pom.xml` – Maven build targeting Java 17 and Flink 2.0.0 with connector/test dependencies.

## Prerequisites
- Java (defaults to 17 matching the compiler target in `pom.xml`)
- Maven
- Docker (required for the Testcontainers-based integration tests)

## Build & Test

Run the full build, including all integration tests:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

> **Note:** Integration tests start Kafka, PostgreSQL, and Elasticsearch containers. Ensure Docker is running. To skip them while iterating, add `-DskipITs`.

## Running the Sample Jobs

The connectors in `src/main` are self-contained jobs that create a `DemultiplexingSink` and feed a few sample records via `StreamExecutionEnvironment#fromData(...)`. Replace the placeholder connection details with values for your environment, then:

1. Build the shaded application JAR (skip tests if you only need the artifact):
   ```bash
   mvn clean package -DskipTests
   ```
2. Submit one of the examples to your Flink cluster, e.g. the Kafka variant:
   ```bash
   flink run \
     -c org.rionmonster.flink.examples.kafka.KafkaDemultiplexingSinkExample \
     target/demux-sink-examples-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
   ```

Each example demonstrates a different routing strategy—by topic for Kafka, by index for Elasticsearch, by table for JDBC, or by directory/file prefix for FileSink.

## Customising the Demultiplexing Sink

Extending the examples typically involves implementing your own `SinkRouter`. Provide deterministic routing keys and create a connector-specific sink when a new route is encountered. For reference, the Kafka example routes messages based on the JSON `topic` field:

```19:46:src/main/java/org/rionmonster/flink/examples/kafka/KafkaDemultiplexingSinkExample.java
streamEnv
    .fromData("a:this", "a:is", "b:a", "c:file", "b:routing", "a:example")
    .sinkTo(
        new DemultiplexingSink<>(
            new SinkRouter<String, String>() {
                @Override
                public String getRoute(String element) {
                    return element.split(":")[0];
                }

                @Override
                public Sink<String> createSink(String topicName, String element) {
                    return KafkaSink.<String>builder()
                        .setBootstrapServers("your-bootstrap-servers")
                        .setRecordSerializer(
                            KafkaRecordSerializationSchema.<String>builder()
                                .setTopic(topicName)
                                .setValueSerializationSchema(new SimpleStringSchema())
                                .build())
                        .setDeliveryGuarantee(DeliveryGuarantee.AT_LEAST_ONCE)
                        .build();
                }
            })));
```

Swap in your own route derivation logic, instantiate the appropriate sink, and Flink will manage the lifecycle of each per-route writer—including state snapshots—through `DemultiplexingSink`.
